We're ready to talk now about
advanced methods of smoothing.
Remember the add one smoothing
that we had earlier.
In add one smoothing we
add 1 to the numerator and
V to the denominator, and we saw
a generalization of that at k smoothing,
where we added k to the numerator and
kV to the denominator.
And we can modify that slightly, we can
create a new version where we simply
replace, introduce a new term
a new variable m equals kV
and now we have a new way
of writing n case moving.
That is going to be a helpful way
of writing it and the reason is,
let's see in the next slide,
that when we write it this way,
we can see that what we're doing
is adding to every bigram,
we're adding a constant that's
related to 1 over the vocabulary size.
And instead of doing that,
we could add a constant related
to the unigram probability of
the word that we're back off to.
So, the Unigram prior
smoothing algorithm is
an extension to add a K
that says instead of.
Using 1 over V as our, to add to every,
adding some function of one
over V to every bigram count.
Let's add something about
the unigram probability.
So really unigram prior is
a kind of interpolation,
its a variant interpolation
where we're adding a count And
in some function of the unigram
probability to the bigram count.
Nonetheless although unigram
prior smoothing works well,
it still not, well it wasn't,
it still doesn't
work well enough to be used for
language modeling.
Nonetheless despite the fact that unigram
prior smoothing works well it doesn't work
well enough to be used for
language modeling.
Instead the intuition used by many
smoothing algorithms Good-turing
smoothing, Kneser-Ney smoothing,
Witten-Bell smoothing.
Is to use the count of
things we've seen once,
to estimate the count of
things we've never seen.
The goal of a smoothing algorithm is to
replace those unseen zeros with something
else and all these algorithms say
look at the things you've seen once.
Things that you saw once before are just
like things that you haven't seen yet
and then you going to see
them once in the test set.
So to see how this intuition works,
we're going to introduce some notation and
the notation we're going to
introduce is big N sub c and
that would mean the frequency
of frequency c.
Meaning how many things
occurred with frequency c?
How big is the bin of things
that occurred with frequency c?
And that's hard to suffer intuitive so
let's look at some intuitions.
So, let's take a look at a sentence
Sam I am I am Sam I do not eat.
And let's just look at
the intergram counts in there.
So, we have I occurring three times.
Sam occurring twice and do not and
eat occurring once each time.
So, what is N sub 1?
How many things occur one time?
Well here they are.
There are three of them.
Three different word types occur one time.
So N sub 3, sub 1 is 3.
How about,
how many things occur two times?
Well there's two of those.
So N sub 2 is 2.
And how about things
that occur three times?
Well, only one of those happens.
So N sub 3 is 1.
All right, so
now that we have the intuition about how
to think about frequencies of frequencies,
let's apply this to get the intuition for
Good-Turing smoothing.
Imagine you're fishing, this is
a scenario invented by Josh Goodman, and
you've caught 10 carp, 3 perch,
2 whitefish, 1 trout, 1 salmon, and 1 eel.
I don't know what kind of river or
stream or ocean this could be,
but nonetheless, you've caught 18 fish.
And we want to estimate how likely is
it that the next species is trout?
And this, just like words, we have maybe
a word that's occurred ten times or
three or two or one.
We want to know how likely is the,
are these ones to occur again?
Well, there's been 18 fish.
Trout's occurred one time out of 18, so
the probability ought to be one out of 18.
But now, let's ask how likely is it
that the next species is a new species?
Catfish or bass,
some species that we haven't seen before.
Something that occurred zero times.
The Good-Turing intuition says let's
use our estimate of things we saw once
to estimate these new things
we've never seen before.
So what's our estimate of things once,
are estimate of thing once,
is drawn from N sub 1.
And how many things occurred once?
Well what's N sub 1?
N sub 1 is 3.
So out of the 18 things we saw, 3 of them
were things that only occurred one time.
So let's use 3 out of 18, as our estimate
for things that we've never seen before.
We're going to use our estimate of things,
a count of things that we've seen once,
as our estimate of things
that we've never seen before.
We're going to reserve some probability
mass for all those unseen things.
Well, now, if we do that, if we use
three out of 18 as our estimate for
all the unseen things
we could possibly see,
how likely is it that
next species is trout?
Well, I already asked you that question
but, before I said one over 18, but
that can't be true anymore, it must be
less than one over 18 because we've used
some of our probability mass for, from the
original 18 fish we've saved some of that
for these new fish that
we've never seen before.
We've removed 3/18 of our probability
mass and so we now have to
discount all of our probabilities for
the other fish downward a little bit.
How are we going to estimate
what this discount factor is.
How much do we reduce all of these counts?
Here's the equation for Good Turing,
here's the answer to that question.
Good Turing tells us
that the probability for
things that we've never seen before,
P star For things with zero frequency,
here is exactly what we
used on the previous slide.
N sub 1, the count of things that have
occurred with frequency 1 over N.
So it's just a as we saw 3 out
of 18 was our number before.
Well then, what do you do with things
that didn't occur with zero frequency.
And for that we use the second
part of the Good Turing equation,
which says, the new count c star,
the Good Turing count.
Is going to be N sub c+1
divide it by N sub c x c+1.
So, let's just work that out and
we'll give you an intuition for
why this is in a second,
let's work it out a little example first.
So, unseen fish, let's say it's bass or
catfish, we haven't seen before In
the training set, the maximum likelihood
probability, estimated probability is 0.
We didn't see this in
the training set out of 0 words.
So, it's 0 out of 18 or zero.
But smooth, we're going to use
the new contouring probability.
And that says it's N1 out of N.
N1 is 3, we saw three things once in
the previous slide out of 18 things.
And so
the new probability is going to be 3 18s.
What about for
something we've seen once like trout?
How are we going to re-estimate the trout?
Well the maximum likelihood estimate tells
us that there was the count of 1 and so
the maximum likelihood
probability is 1 over 18.
But the new Good Turing formula here says
the count of trout should be c, c is 1.
C plus 1, so 2 times N sub 2 over N sub 1,
and that's going to
be 2 times 1 3rd, because N sub 2 is 1,
from the previous slide, and N sub 1.
Is three and 2 * 1/3, so 2/3.
So our Good Turing probability
takes our C*(trout) and
divides it by the 18 things we've seen so
it's 2/3 / 18 or 1/27.
So instead of the count of things
we saw once before, we had 1/18.
And now we've dropped it to two-thirds,
two-thirds over 18.
So we've discounted our probability
from one-eighteenth to only
two-thirds of an eighteenth.
And we've used that extra discount
to probability mass to account for
the 0 things we've never seen before.
Let's look tat the Ney's Intuition for
Good Turning developed by Herman Ney and
his colleagues.
Imagine the training set,
this is of size c.
And this is a training
set with words in it.
And here's a word, here's another word,
here's another word, here's another word.
And now let's, we're going to hold out
iteratively words from this training set.
Let's first take one word,
the first word there, the blue word, and
we'll just write it over here.
So now we'll think about
the training set without that word.
That's got c-1 word.
And this one held out word over here,
the blue word.
And now let's do the same
thing with a different word.
Let's take out, let's say the second word.
So we still have c-1 if
we include this guy.
C-1, words left in training and
then one more word over here.
And the held-out set.
And we'll do this c times, so
each time we'll pull out one word.
We've pulled out words one by one and
what we've created is a held-out
set that's of size c.
But each word in it was created from
a training set that was missing that word,
a training set of size
c-1 minus that word.
So imagine each of these words and
their corresponding training sets.
And we can look at a picture developed by
Dan Klein to think about this intuition.
And here we've just turned those held
out and training sets on their sides, so
I still have of length c, but
I've now written them vertically.
And now let's think about this intuition.
I've got c training sets,
each one of size c minus one,
and then each one has
a held out set of size one.
And let's try to answer the question,
what fraction of held out
words are unseen in training.
Well, these words, N sub 0,
the words unseen in training.
Each word that's unseen in
training occurred one time
in the original training set before we
took out each of our held out data.
If there was a word and
it occurred once in training, so
it's an N sub 1, heard once in training.
And we take it out of it's training set.
Leaving c-1 words, then that word
occurs 0 times in its training set,
the new training set without that word.
So the held-out words, N sub 0 of them,
those N sub 0 words, were the words
that were N sub 1 in their original
training set before you removed them.
So if we want to know how many
words are unseen in training,
it's the words that occurred one time in
the original training set, or N 1 over c.
But correspondingly if we want to know,
let me clear that up.
Where fraction of words
are seen k times in training.
Let's pick a k perhaps it will be two so
we pick n sub two.
Then the number of things that occurred
two times in our held-out set is
the number of things that occurred three
times in the original training before we
remove one copy of each of those words,
and now they occur only twice.
So we need to think if we want to know
how many words occur k times in training,
to estimate that,
it's really the words that occurred k plus
1 times in our original training set.
And then we're going to
want to multiply that
by m the number of words that occur.
Each of those words occurs k + 1 times.
So we have k + 1 word occurrences of
the n sub k + 1 bin,
each of which has n sub k + 1 words in it.
And we'll express that as a fraction
out of the total words c.
Remember the total words are c.
So that's the fraction of held out
words seen k times in training.
And that means in the future
we expect (k+1) times N
sub k+1 over to be those
with training count k.
And since there are N sub k words
with training count k, we want to.
This fraction, this probability,
we're going to distribute
that over N sub k words.
So we'll get each of those N sub k words
is going to occur with probability k+1
times N sub k plus one
over c over N sub k,
because we're distributing
over those words.
And that means that the expected
can be multiplied back by
c again to turn from
a fraction back into a count.
The expected count of words that
occur with training count k,
case of star is k + 1 times the ratio
of n sub k + 1 over n sub k Think we
talked about, we always compute
the count n sub k from n sub k plus one,
but what do we do with words that
are in fact the largest set,
the k plus the largest number,
let's say that the word The,
is in fact the word that occurred
most frequently in the we
don't have a more frequent
word to estimate it from.
So, for large k, this Good-Turing
estimator doesn't work well because
there's lots of words that may never
have occurred let's say 4 4418 times,
or even 3722 times.
We're going to have some gaps.
And so then we'll have sum 0, so
the word you'll need is the word the and
this is some other word, of.
And there's a missing word in here and
there's missing words here.
So we can't always use the N plot
one word to do the estimation.
And a simple replacement for that, in
fact I'm going to call simple Good-Turing
is after the counts gone live or
after the first few counts.
We just replace our estimator with
some kind of a best fit power law, so
we don't actually use Good-Turing with
each of these higher order numbers.
We just use them for the lower bins.
So let's look at the result Good-Turing
numbers from one example, so
here's numbers from a Church and
Gale experiment where they used
22 million words of AP Newswire.
Here's the, just to remind you here
is the, a good turn equation so
the count c star is c +
1 times N c+1 over Nc.
So here is the original count c,
here is the 0s
now replaced by the Good-Turing estimator
with a little extra probability mass.
From N sub one here's the one,
the one's alternate in point four four six
of the things that occurred count two now
occur with count one point two six of all
the things with count three occur
with count two point two four so
each of our counts has been discounted
of this each count has been discounted
To a lower number to leave some room for
the things with zero count.
And the last thing I want to
leave you on is asking you
what's the relationship
between each of these counts?
The original counts,
c, and these counts c*.
Do you notice any general relationship?